---
layout: post
title: An overview of our project.
subtitle: What ambitions do we have for our app.
cover-img: /assets/img/burger.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: /assets/img/burger.jpg
comments: true
---

**The vision statement:**

The application OrderUp will be used as an **online food delivery service** to conveniently deliver personalised cuisine orders to customers from their nearby restaurants.  

The main goal of this project is to **help people get the food that they are craving at their convenience**. The application takes into consideration users who lead a busy life so the system is designed to alleviate the hassle of cooking meals at home and the subsequent disruption to a workflow that can entail, and it also eliminates the need to drive out to a restaurant and wait for the order.

To provide customer satisfaction, our service accepts **users' comments** to improve our services and assist other customers in making an informed decision by being able to view feedback left by other customers. For returning customers, the system allows its customers to **save their banking information** in their account to help make an easy transaction for when they return to use the application. For customers that do not know their neighbourhood well enough, we have the restaurant's addresses displayed for an easier understanding of their location.

The project will be deemed successful primarily based on customer feedback, and prioritising customer’s needs. Specifically, through a **minimum 4-star rating** in the **App Store** and directly from the OrderUp application. Success will also be determined by how quickly modifications in our product are implemented in response to feedback from customers. OrderUp will monitor its development and success over time by a **minimum of 30 000 orders** that are completed successfully over each quarter. Finally, keeping a steady increase in traffic to be at least **20% quarterly** for our application will enable us to gauge its overall performance.

In comparison to other online food delivery applications, OrderUp is designed to be easy to use for different age groups ranging from Gen Z to Millennials as there are **universal visual cues** used to make the process from finding food to order to having it delivered seamlessly.

The application is meant to **save the users' time** to allow them to do what is important to them, whether that’s spending time with their loved ones, being productive in their studies or work, or simply kicking back and relaxing. So, this is an application that accomplishes being a food delivery service that values its customers' time and loyalty while appealing to a wide range of users.


**A description of the intended users:**


The application has a wide range of target audiences, as the use of this application will differ based on the user’s schedule or vehicle availability. For customers who do not have access to a vehicle, or who are unable to drive out to pick up their food, they can instead conveniently order food for delivery through OrderUp. However, for those who are working professionals seeking to maintain their productivity, and for parents whose busy lifestyles get in the way of cooking quality meals for themselves, or their families can use OrderUp to order food for delivery to **arrive as soon as possible**.


**An overview of major functionality:**

The functionality of our app is designed to enhance the user experience for ordering food through delivery. We have dedicated user accounts to store a user's data so that it's there for their convenience when they order. We have a search box with a built in search algorithm to help users find the restauarants they are searching for. We also included checkout carts so that users can add menu items to their cart, even from multiple different restauarants. Our app also has a premium membership feature that allows users to take advantage of decreased delivery fees for a one time fee. In addition to that we also have giftcards which can be redeemed into a built in wallet so that you can store your app balance digitally. Users can also leave feedback on restaurants which is extremely valuable both to our restaurant partners and other users. Finally we have a customer service page to help provide assistance to customers facing issues with our app. 

**A list of contributors/team members, including a description of any specific special development skills that each team member gained:**

Jackson: Gained skills in merging, Android studio language, high level testing, debugging, experience on reading other members code, how to work with three tier layer.

Krupal: Gained skills in debugging methods to get rid of bugs, UI implementations, running integration tests using database.

Harsimran:

Vaughn: Gained skills in HSQLDB and general database knowledge, website building using GitHub Pages, android coding for UI, and project managment through GitLab.

Sanjana: Gained skills in database design using HSQLDB, creating XML UI files, Integrating Logic and Presentation classes, Creating unit and acceptance tests.
